# emo

## HackTheBox Information

- **Challenge Type:** ~~Machine~~ | **Files**
- **Challenge Rating:** 4.8
- **User Solves:** 3130
- **Difficulty Rating:** Medium

[Go to challenge](https://app.hackthebox.com/challenges/188)

## Forensics Section

*“WearRansom ransomware just got loose in our company. The SOC has traced the initial access to a phishing attack, a Word document with macros. Take a look at the document and see if you can find anything else about the malware and perhaps a flag.”*


### Case Summary

On Saturday 1st October at 12:30pm, a WinBee’s employee reports that his computer is not working and it is asking for a ransom in order to unlock it. The Security Operations Center has already analyzed the situation and they inform us about a Microsoft Word document which may have caused the problem.

### Objectives

This report is a summary of steps taken and conclusions derived from the analysis of a Microsoft Word document. The document in question is suspected of being ransomware, this meaning a software that kidnaps computers - by encrypting the data and not letting anyone use it - and asks for a ransom to free them. We need to analyze the Word document to prove that it is the ransomware and inspect where the source comes from.

### Evidence Analyzed

After WinBee’s SOC (*Security Operations Center*) analysis of the incident, they have found irregular activity just after the execution of a Microsoft Word Document. This document, **emo.doc** contains macros and is suspected to launch the ransomware.

A copy to study it was delivered to us on Tuesday the 4th of October.

The document itself is a simple page containing a photo of Microsoft Windows telling the user to update the Microsoft Word version, and to do so, enable macros to be executed.

Total evidence:
- emo.doc



### Findings

- **Emo.doc** was in fact the ransomware
- 4 files generated by emo.doc macros
- Request petition to different websites for malware functioning
- A flag inside malicious code



---
---


**Note:** For more detailed information, refer to the comprehensive Forensic Report in this project's directory.

Feel free to explore the files and delve into the forensic investigation process. Happy exploring!
